Word Doc Rough Draft of Submission:

PROPOSAL
Medical Image Annotation Job: Check whether the X-Ray Images show the lungs of someone healthy or with pneumonia 

Student: April Marie Canillo

Overview of project and product goal:

The key purpose of this project is to quickly distinguish between x-rays of serious cases of pneumonia in children, or healthy cases. This can also then be used as a tool that acts as a diagnostic aid for doctors. 

This project was designed on Appen’s platform using the Image Categorization project template, in order to build a labeled dataset that distinguishes between healthy and pneumonia x-ray images. This dataset can then be used by Machine Learning engineers in the future to build a classification product. 

Label justification:

The Custom Markup Language (CML) is designed with radio buttons indicating a scale between 0 to 4. This design automatically includes room for low confidence and uncertainty; which may be observed in this dataset since we are unable to train the model on all possible data points (see Figure 1). All possible labels are shown with examples in the Instructions_Preview.html document, and also include clarifying details and reasonings. The inclusion of all cases, including ambiguous or tricky annotation cases, can ensure that the results minimize the likelihood of the contributors or model missing these details.

Figure 1: Data Labelling Table

1 - Healthy
Indicates a visibly health x-ray. Clear lung area, visible ribs and heart, and clear diaphragm shadow. 
2 - Likely healthy, definitely not pneumonia
The x-ray is mostly clear however there is a certain area of the x-ray that indicates it’s not exactly healthy. The image definitely does not show normal characteristics of pneumonia.
3 - Likely pneumonia, definitely not healthy
Some visibility of organs, however thick clouds that obscure certain areas. Definitely not typical of healthy x-rays. 
4 - Pneumonia
Clearly distinct cloudy areas that obscure the lungs, and/or several small cloudy areas, and/or little (if any) visible diaphragm shadow. 
0 - Cannot Determine 
Visual features on the x-ray that are characteristic of typical pneumonia or healthy patients, therefore cannot be determined.


There were 117 x-ray images in this data sample, and 7% were used as test questions. The Answer Distribution was distributed evenly across all nine test questions to avoid biasing contributors (see Figure 2). The question and reasoning quality is also defined to ensure quality from the contributors. 

Figure 2: Answer Distribution

[Image showing data: 
"On a scale of 1 (definitely healthy lungs) to 4 (definitely pneumonia lungs) what does this x-ray image show?
1 - healthy                                      22% answer distribution.
4 - pneumonia                                    22% answer distribution.
3 - likely pneumonia, definitiely not healthy    22% answer distribution.
2 - likely healthy, definitiely not pneumonia    22% answer distribution.
0 - cannot determine                             11% distribution. 

It is important to identify where the contributors had misunderstood the job or failed according to the statistics, in order to update the instructions, update the design, or create more test questions. Results like these further emphasize the need for continual auditing of results. 

I would review the failed question to see if there are any details that can be added, and use the same question as part of the Examples page in order to better prepare the contributors.


Product strengths:

The systematic approach of this project ensures that there are plans for longevity. The ever-evolving data being introduced from the medical industry means that this dynamic model will need to be continuously trained on new data in order to stay relevant. 

Potential weaknesses and areas of improvement:

This model is region-based, and at this time not designed for expansion. However, the project outline can be similarly replicated across different regions and made to adopt each region’s nuances. 

Though the distribution of the answers to the Test Questions were designed to reduce bias, the questions were selected at random and therefore may limit the scope of complexity of the project. There may be greater likelihood of success for the contributors and the results if the Product Manager had manually selected and created the appropriate Test Questions and answers, rather than selecting these at random. 

The radio scale could be improved as more complex data is added. In this case, rather than a 0 to 4 scale, a 1-10 scale may be more appropriate, with more detailed descriptors with percentages such as “20% of lungs covered with pneumonia” or “80% chance of pneumonia based on ____”. A more detailed scale will allow doctors to combine their experience with the data provided by the model, in order to make their best quick judgements. 
In this case, user interviews with medical professionals would be necessary, in order to ensure that the labeling of the data is as accurate as possible. 
Prototype usability testing with medical professionals will also be mandatory to ensure that the product is simple and intuitive enough to not hinder their performance - particularly in high-stress environments / situations. 

Engineers would need to be informed of results from the usability testing of medical professionals. For example, they may need to be tasked with ensuring the product includes a hands-off functionality, and the ability to add user notes and update information live. 

Designers would be tasked with a minimalist approach to the design, for example to ensure the user the navigation time between login and x-ray information is less than 5 seconds, and for ease of use for the medical professionals’ use. Designers would need to be closely updated by the UX Foundational Research team to ensure that the product will integrate well into the medical environment. 

Response to annotator feedback

Based on annotator feedback, improvements may be made in clarifying the steps. By providing more details regarding the scale, contributors may be better equipped to complete the task successfully. For example, rather than listing only options 1 (healthy) and 4 (pneumonia) - the two opposites of the spectrum - detailing all options in the steps may provide the contributor with more clarity. 





How can the Figure Eight platform be improved?

Edit / Delete Test Questions

An option to edit or delete the test questions should be an implemented feature under the “Quality” tab. Unfortunately as I was updating the “Design” tab, I noticed that when x-ray images were placed next to each other on a grid, I was able to more definitively distinguish whether or not the image shown was of a child with pneumonia or healthy; thereby changing the results of my original answers to the test questions. This then prompted me to want to review the test questions for edit or deletion, however I could not find a visible option for this, and had to settle on launching with outdated answers. 

Auto-fill Design Examples using Quality data 

It would be more time-efficient to include the option to Auto-Fill the Examples portion of the Design tab with the Test Questions and Answers. Normally, I would need to answer the test questions and remember to take screenshots and record my answers for each one. Once I’m satisfied with the number of test questions, I would save, navigate back to the Design Tab, and fill the Examples portion with the screenshots and notes I had established. This back-tracking slows down the process of completing the launch. 

Option to manually add Test Questions

Rather than having the system randomly select Test Questions to answers, the option for the Appen Client to manually add images, questions, and answers (which they had personally selected before-hand) would be less time consuming than the current process of skipping through data images until the appropriate example is found. 
